---
title: 'Hat Trick - 2703, 2635 and 2619'
date: '2023-06-29'
description: 'Returning the length of an array, transforming the contents and creating
an array prototype to return the last index'
---
### Hat Trick - 2703, 2635 and 2619  

#### 2703. Return Length of Arguments Passed
*Write a function `argumentsLength` that returns the count of arguments passed to it.*

---

My solution:
```
var argumentsLength = (...args) => args.length
```
In my solution, I accept any number of arguments captured inside the `args` array.
The contents of the `args` array are not important as the length of said array
is easily accesible and using arrow functions implicit return we return `args.length`.

This exercise appears to be an intro to the concept of dealing with an unknown
number of arguments.  

In this and most situations, the spread operator used in a function definition is 
because you either don't know the number of arguments being passed or you intend
to allow for multiple arguments.

A good example of this would be a function that takes any amount of numbers and
returns their sum:
```
function sum(...numbers) {
  return numbers.reduce((acc, curr) => acc + curr, 0);
}

console.log(sum(1, 2, 3));         // Output: 6
console.log(sum(4, 5, 6, 7, 8));   // Output: 30
console.log(sum(10));              // Output: 10
```
<br>
<br>
<br>

#### 2635. Apply Transform Over Each Element in Array
*Given an integer array `arr` and a mapping function `fn`, return a new array with a transformation applied to each element.*

*The returned array should be created such that `returnedArray[i] = fn(arr[i], i)`.*

*Please solve it without the built-in `Array.map` method.*

---

My solution:
```
var map = function(arr, fn) {
    const result = arr.map((x, i) => fn(x, i))
    return result
};
```
This problem is meant to have us recreate a simplified version of the `Array.map`
method that runs a function over each element in the array, returning the array
transformed.

First we can create a result variable that we equal to the output of our map
function. We want to pass the function two variables, the current element and the
current index. Luckily, `Array.map` passes the current element and index to the 
provided callback function respectively.

We then pass the callback `(x, i) => fn(x, i)` which returns the result of passing
the current element and current index to the provided function for each element 
in the array.

We then return the newly transformed array.


<br>
<br>
<br>

#### 2619. Array Prototype Last

*Write code that enhances all arrays such that you can call the `array.last()` method on any array and it will return the last element. If there are no elements in the array, it should return `-1`.*

*You may assume the array is the output of `JSON.parse`.*

---

My solution:
```
Array.prototype.last = function() {
    return this.length > 0 ? this.pop() : -1
};
```

There are two possible return conditions here, either we return the last element
of the array or we return `-1` if the array is empty.

This is a perfect case for the use of a ternary operator. The easiest way to think
of the ternary operator is `condition ? "return if true" : "return if false"`. This
is very useful for simple situations that return different results based on a
condition.

*Side note - This is also absolutely necessary for conditional rendering in React.*

Lastly, since my code is only one line you might think that this would be a perfect usecase
for arrows single line implicit return. 

```
Array.prototype.last = () => this.length > 0 ? this.pop() : -1
```
This looks pretty clean, you'd likely think this is fine. 

Sadly, this no longer accomplishes what we're trying to do. The reason is that
arrow functions do not have their own `this` binding. Instead, they lexically 
capture the `this` valueof the enclosing context in which they are defined. This 
behavior is often referred to as "lexical `this`."

For this reason, we need to use a regular function so that we can have access to
the `this` and manipulate it as needed. In this case we return `this.pop()`, the
`Array.pop` function returning the last value of an array.

We've enhanced arrays with a `last()` method that returns the last element or `-1` if the array is empty. The solution introduces a custom implementation using `Array.prototype.last` and a ternary operator to handle the two return conditions. It emphasizes the need for a regular function instead of an arrow function to preserve access to `this` and manipulate it accordingly. This article highlights the practicality of the ternary operator for simple conditional scenarios and showcases the importance of lexical `this` in JavaScript.